---
layout: page
title: "Initial Post"
date: 2017-09-02 05:01
---

This started off as a project when I transitioned into a new role at
work, sometime in July 2017, to be the lead developer on the web
client for our product. This also grew into a presentation I gave a
few times, "Learning React + GraphQL + Apollo All At Once".

I thought I would keep notes on what I was learning here in a wee
jekyll blog alongside the toy app, but I haven't taken the time for
that so much.

## The App

The app is a basic post and comment type thing, with users. Sorta like
a twitter clone, but not.

## File Structure

The app is structured in two main parts:

- `api/` The API, served up with a Rails5 API application, using GraphQL-Ruby
- `client/` The client, created with `create-react-app`

## Features

### Authentication / JWT

One of the primary features is the ability to log in and out using
**only** graphql operations. In this case, when the user logs in, they
are supplied with a JWT which much be included in the `Authorization`
header as a `Bearer` token.

### NullUser

I wanted to have the app work even if the user is not logged in, and
decided to try the `NullUser` concept.

### GraphQL Ruby under `app/`

In my work, someone decided it was a good idea to mount the graphql
system as a Rails Engine. I thought it might be an okay idea, but I
decided it would be good to try the standard way supported by the
`graphql-ruby` gem's generators.

### Apollo Client

Apollo client is a great implementation of the client for interacting
with the graphql server. At inception, this app used Apollo Client
v1, but it's been recently upgraded to v2.
